Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial,
so that's it we built our model we fitted the
logistic regression model to our training set
and then we predicted the test that resolved.
We used the confusion matrix to evaluate the predictive
power of our logistic regression model, that was actually
quite fine, we found sixty five plus twenty four equals
eighty nine correct predictions and eight plus three equals
eleven incorrect predictions but that's not really
the fun way of visualizing the predictive power.
What is much more fun and much more exciting is to look
at the result on a graph, so that's what we're going to do
in this tutorial; we're going to make a graph
where we will clearly see the regions where our logistic
regression model predicts, yes the user is going to buy
the product and no the user is not going to buy the product.
So lets make this graph.
So unfortunately we cannot make this graph
in just one line or two lines; I tried to make it
the simplest as possible but by doing that I ended
up with a little more than ten lines of code.
So what I'm gonna do, I'm not going to write the whole
code right now because you might fall asleep.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to take the code
I prepared to visualize the training set results
in my text editor; I'm going to copy it, paste it here
then I will select this code and execute it.
We will look at our results, interpret them
and then for those of you interested
in how we made such a graph, at the end of the tutorial
I will explain how it's made in the graph.
Okay, so I copied it I'm gonna paste it now; here it is
here is the code so that's fifteen lines of code
as you can see, and so since I can't wait to show you
the results we're going to select the code now
and I'm going to press Command and Control
+ Enter to execute and we will see
the whole thing behind the logistic regression model
we gonna see the true results
under regions of predictions, so let's do it.
Command and Control + Enter to execute and here we go,
that's the graph, so I'm going to enlarge this
and now I'll explain what to interpret.
Okay, so let's analyze this graph step by step
first let's focus on all the points here; we can see that
we have some red points and some green points.
So all these points that we see on this graph are the
observation points of our training set, that is these
are all the users of the social network that were selected
to go to the training set and each of these users here
is characterized by its age here in the x-axis
and its estimated salary here on the y-axis.
Now we can see that there's some red points here
and some green points here.
The red points are the training set observations
for which the dependent variable purchased
is equal to zero and the green points are the training
set observations for which the dependent variable
purchased is equal to one.
That means that the red points here are
the users who didn't buy the SUV and the green points
here are the users who bought, who actually bought the SUV.
So now as a first step of analysis
lets give an interpretation of what we observe here
with these users, okay so first we can see that
the users who are young with a low estimated salary
so these users here actually didn't buy the SUV because
these points are the real observation points they're red
and red corresponds to zero here so that means that
all these points here are the users who didn't buy the SUV
the users in the training set.
Then if we look at the users who are older and with a higher
estimated salary; well we can see that most of these users
actually bought the SUV and it actually makes sense
because the SUV is more like a family car and therefore
more interesting for these older users here with the
high estimated salary, besides we can also see that some
older people even with the low estimated salary actually
bought the SUV as we can see that we have some green points
here that correspond to an age above the average
the average is here, but an estimated salary below
the average because the average is here.
Okay, so these guys these older guys although they have
the lowest estimated salary actually bought the SUV
probably because they've been saving up some money
or maybe they finished paying off their mortgage
I don't know but what's for sure is that they couldn't
resist buying this very cool luxury SUV offered
at a ridiculously low price
and on the other hand we can also see that
there's some young people here
with a high estimated salary who actually bought the SUV
you know maybe because it's a very cool SUV and they
want to impress their friends and take them in to road trips
or maybe they already have a family I don't know.
Anyway, they bought the SUV actually there are a lot
of buyers so this must be a very cool and cheap SUV.
Okay and now what is the goal of classification,
now we're talking machine learning;
why are we making some classifiers
and what will classifiers will do,
at least what are we trying to make them do
for this particular business problem.
Well the goal here is to classify the right users in to
the right categories, that is we are trying to make a
classifier that will catch the right users in to the right
category which are, yes they buy the SUV and no they don't
buy the SUV and we represented they way our classifier
catches these users by plotting what are called
the prediction regions and so the prediction regions are
the two regions that we see on this graph, this red one here
and this green one here and the red prediction region
is the region where are classifier catches all the users
that don't buy the SUV and the green prediction region is
the region where our classifier
catches all the users that buy the SUV.
But be careful this is according to the classifier
that is for each user of this red prediction region here
our logistic regression classifier predicts that the user
doesn't buy the SUV and for each user of this
green prediction region here our classifier will predict
that the user buys the SUV; even if that's not the case
in real life that's just a prediction but that's what
our classifier believes will happen.
It is the classifier prediction compared to the truth here
which is the point; the point is the truth and the region
here is the prediction.
So that makes an awesome tool because for each new user
of the social network well our classifier, our logistic
regression classifier will tell based on its age and its
estimated salary if this user belongs
to this red prediction region here
and therefore doesn't buy the SUV or if this user
belongs to this green prediction region here and therefore
buys the SUV and that way this business client car company
can substantially optomize their marketing campaign
by targeting the social network ads to the the users
in the green region because these are the users that are
predicted to buy the SUV according to our classifier.
Now the other very important thing to understand is that
these are two prediction regions separated by
a straight line which is this straight line here
and this straight line is called the prediction boundary.
Because it's the boundary between the two prediction regions
and the fact that it's a straight line is not random
it is for a particular reason and that's the thing very
important to understand because that's the essence
of logistic regression If the prediction boundary
is a straight line here that's because
our logistic progression classifier is a linear classifier
that means that here since we're in two dimensions
you know because we have two independent variables
the age and the estimated salary so we are in two dimensions
then since the logistic regression classifier is a linear
classifier then the prediction boundary separator here
can only be a straight line; if we were in three dimensions
then is would be a straight plain separating two spaces
but here in two dimensions it's a straight line and it will
always be a straight line if your classifier is a linear
classifier but you will see later that when we build
nonlinear classifiers then the prediction boundaries
separator won't be a straight line anymore; I won't tell you
more right now and I'll let you wait for the surprise.
So here we can clearly see that our logistic regression
classifier manages to catch most of the users who didn't
buy the SUV in the red region here and most of the users
who bought the SUV in the green region here.
So it actually did a pretty good job however it seems to
have trouble catching some green users here who
in spite of their low salary bought the luxury SUV
as well as those other green users here who also bought the
luxury SUV because as you can see these green points here
and those here are in the red region which is the region
where our classifier predicts that the users don't buy
the SUV and those incorrect predictions are due
specifically to the fact that our classifier is a linear
classifier and because our users
are not linearly distributed
if they were
linearly distributed then we would have all the green points
here in this space and all the red points here in this space
and then a liner classifier with a straight line could
perfectly separate all the red points here
and all the green points here,
but here we have some rebellious points who are
not in the wanted linear regions and because
our linear classifier has a linear straight line
separator that's why is has trouble catching those
users here and those here.
You can clearly see that even if you
tried to rotate this straight line here well you will
always have some green points in the wrong category.
For example if we tried to rotate here this way like
putting it down; well okay we will catch these green points
here in the right green region here but since we rotated
down we will take more green users here because this
will go up and more green users here will be in the
red region; so that's the best separator that the logistic
regression classifier could find and it couldn't do better
because it can only be a straight line separating these
two regions because to catch those users
the green users here and the green users here
in the right categories that is the green region
our classifier will need to make some kind of a curve
here to you know classify correctly those green users here
and here and place them in the green region
and that would prevent our classifier from making
this incorrect predictions here because it is
a straight line; with a curve here we would catch
all the red users properly in the red region and
all the green users in the green region.
So that would make an awesome classifier
and you will see how our nonlinear classifiers
will make a terrific job at doing this
I can't wait to show you this.
Okay and now eventually the last thing very important
to understand is that this is the training set; this is
a training set so that means that our classifier learnt
how to classify based on this information here
so I would hold my breath a few more seconds
until I find out if our logistic regression classifier
can manage to make good predictions of new observations
that is to classify new users in to the right regions
which by the way are fixed regions here because these
are the regions generated by the learning experience
of our logistic regression classifier and therefore
won't change if we look at some new observations
that is new social network users and that's what we're
about to find out on the test set so hold on.
So what I'm gonna do now I'm going to copy this
because we don't wanna, we want to be efficient
and base it here and now I'm just going to replace
training here by test,
all right, and here I just have to replace x-train
by x-test
and y-train by y-test
that's all that's all I need to do, oh and maybe
the title I'm going to change the title of the graph test.
Okay so let's now see how our logistic regression classifier
predicts the new observations on the test set
on which our model wasn't built, so Command and Control
+ enter to execute and lets see.
Alright not bad, not bad, I'm going to enlarge this
here we go, so this looks good this looks very good
these are the real results in red that means the users
that didn't buy the SUV in reality and these are the
customers that bought it and we can see that the prediction
regions predict well those real values because
all those red points here in the red region
so that's the correct prediction
all those green points here in the green region
so that's some other correct predictions
and of course since this is a linear classifier
the logistic regression makes a few mistakes here
but that's fine and that's actually
the incorrect predictions that we saw on the
confusion matrix remember there was eleven incorrect
predictions we can count them here.
This green point should be here so it's one then two
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and then we have
to count the red points in the green region
that was incorrectly predicted so nine, ten and eleven.
Okay, so yes that's the eleven incorrect predictions
that we found in the confusion matrix; alright so
that's the first classification model we built I hope you
like the graph, okay so congratulations.
You implemented your first classification model
and now for those of you who are interested
in understanding how the graph was made
stay with me and I will explain right now how it works.
Okay, so the best way to explain it is to reselect this
Command and Control + Enter to execute
and here's the graph, so what is the idea how
how did we plot those prediction regions
well the idea is actually pretty cool,
because we took all the pixels of this frame here
that means this pixel, this pixel all the pixels
well actually with a oh point oh one resolution
so we took all the pixel points of this framework
and we applied our classifier on it
and so you know it's like each of these pixel points
is a user of the social network with a salary
and an age, so it's like, it's like an observation
only it's not the observations we have in our data set.
It's a new observation we create but we have to picture
this like a user in the social network with an
estimated salary and an age.
So for each of these new pixel points these new pixel
observation points; we applied our logistic regression model
to predict if this pixel observation point
has value zero or one, and if our classifier predicts
zero then it's going to colorize this pixel point in red
and if the classifier predicts one it's going to colorize
the pixel point in green.
So by doing this on all the pixel
points in the frame here it colorizes all the pixel points
that have the zero predictions, the zero predictions here
and all the pixel points that have the one prediction
and since the logistic regression is a classifier
the limits between those sets of points is a straight line
because as I told earlier the logistic regression is
a liner classifier which means it's a straight line
in two dimensions and now that you understand that
you will understand this code very well.
Okay, so now let's go through the lines one by one
we start by importing the listed call map class that
will help us colorize all the data points
then we create this line to just create some local variables
x-set so that we can replace x-train and y-train easily
by x-test and y-test instead of having to replace it
everywhere because you know we use x-set all the time
so you know it's just a shortcut to avoid having to
replace too many times the x-test and x-train here.
Okay here with this two lines of code x=one and x-two
equals np.mesh grid we prepare the grid you know
with all the pixel points that I just talked to you about.
So here as you can see we take the minimum values of the
age values minus one because we don't want our points
to be squeezed on the axis here and the maximum values
of the age, you know to get the range of pixels we want to
include in the frame and same for the salary we're taking
the minimum salary minus one and the maximum salary plus
one to get all the estimated salary range and minus one
and plus one so that all the points aren't squeezed;
and here we're choosing the steps 0.01
that means that there is an 0.01 resolution
so for example if I had chosen 0.5 this
wouldn't have been that dense we would actually see
the pixel points but that's better to take
this resolution because these are nice
prediction regions like it's continuous.
Okay and then with this line of code that's where
the whole magic happens, because this is where
we apply the classifier on all the pixel observation points
and by doing that it colorizes all the red pixel points
and all the green pixel points and we use this
contour function too actually make the contour between
the two prediction regions the red one and the green one.
Then as you can see here we use the predict function
of our classifier, the logistic regression classifier,
to predict if each of the pixel points belongs
to class zero or class one then if the pixel point
belongs to class zero it will be colorized in red
and if the pixel point belongs to class one
it will be colorized in green.
Okay so here we plot the limits of x the age and
y the estimated salary then with this loop here we
plot all the data points that are the real values
so all the red data points here and the green data points
so we're using this PLT.scatter.
Which is what we use for matplotlib to make a scatter
plot and then very simply here we add the title logistic
regression training set, the x label age
the y label estimated salary, we plot the legend
to specify that the red points correspond to zero
that is the user didn't buy and the green point
corresponds to one that is the users bought the product
and PLT show to display the graph and specify that this is
the end of the graph, all right so congratulations if
you're still here congratulations for having the curiosity
of wondering how we can build such a plot
so that's a lot of things to learn in this section
because you learned how to make a logistic regression
model and how to make an awesome chart
so congratulations, in the next section things are
gonna get even more exciting because we will
build even more powerful classifiers
so I look forward to showing that to you
and until then enjoy machine learning.